Well, hello. We're so happy that you could be with us for another edition of JW Broadcasting.
My friend, Bob Siranko's here. He's going to be the co-host for this program.
Bob, why don't you tell the folks what's in store?
Thank you, David. We have some exciting things to look forward to on this program.
We'll look back at how the organization once used a different type of broadcast,
the WBBR radio station in Staten Island, New York.
And as many faithful brothers and sisters know, singleness can be both a gift and a challenge.
How did one sister learn to find joy as a single person serving Jehovah?
Also, we're thrilled to share with you the sounds of brothers and sisters
from around the world playing music in their local styles, music that praises Jehovah.
This is the September program of JW Broadcasting, and you are welcome.
This month, I'd like to discuss how our understanding of this generation
that Jesus spoke about at Matthew 2434 has a bearing on the nearness of the time of the end of this system of things.
Now, you'll remember what Jesus said, as recorded at Matthew 2434,
he said, this generation will by no means pass away until all these things happen.
Now, you'll notice that there are two elements in this verse.
We talk about this generation, so we need to know what that's about,
and also what are all these things that are going to happen.
Well, let's take the second point first.
What are all these things that Jesus was referring to?
Well, if you look in the context of Matthew 24,
you see that Jesus talks about nation rising against nation,
kingdom against kingdom, food shortages, earthquakes, and one place after another.
Fine.
So the generation that Jesus is talking about will not pass away until it sees war, famine, earthquakes,
but is there more? There's more.
In the same chapter, Jesus talks about a great tribulation.
So the generation will not pass away until the great tribulation occurs.
Now, that is interesting. That is relevant to us.
But, of course, we have to know what is a generation,
and which particular generation was Jesus talking about?
Now, if you were asked by someone to identify a scripture
that tells us what a generation is, what scripture would you turn to?
I'll give you a moment. Think about that.
My choice is Exodus chapter 1 and verse 6.
Let's read that. Exodus chapter 1 and verse 6.
It says, Joseph eventually died,
and also all his brothers, and all that generation.
Now, what do we know about Joseph's family?
We know that Joseph had eleven brothers.
Ten of them were older than Joseph.
One of them, Benjamin, was younger.
And we know that at least two of Joseph's brothers actually lived longer than Joseph,
because the Bible says that on his deathbed he called his brothers plural to him.
But now, what did Joseph and his brothers all have in common?
They were all contemporaries.
They had all lived at the same time.
They were part of the same generation.
Now, suppose there was a man who died ten minutes before Joseph was born.
Would he be part of Joseph's generation?
No, because he'd never lived at the same time as Joseph.
He was not a contemporary of Joseph's.
Now, suppose there was a little baby who was born ten minutes after Joseph died.
Would the baby be part of Joseph's generation?
Again, no, because the baby would not have lived at the same time as Joseph.
For the man and the baby to be part of Joseph's generation,
they would have had to have lived at least some time during Joseph's lifespan.
So now we've discovered what it means to have a generation, what makes up a generation.
It's a group of contemporaries.
It's a group of people who have lived at the same time.
But now, Jesus said, this generation will not pass, will by no means pass away until all these things happen.
So what particular generation was Jesus referring to?
For that, we have to go to the context of Jesus' words.
So let's turn to Matthew chapter 24 and we're going to read verses 32 to 34.
This is very important and it's very enlightening.
Matthew chapter 24 verses 32 to 34.
Jesus says, now learn this illustration from the fig tree.
Just as soon as its young branch grows tender and sprouts its leaves,
you know that summer is near.
Likewise, also you, when you see all these things,
know that he is near at the doors.
Truly I say to you that this generation will by no means pass away until all these things happen.
Now let's go back to verse 32.
Notice that Jesus is saying that his disciples should learn something from the fig tree.
Now any little boy, any small child can see a leaf on a tree and point to it and say,
look, leaf, but what does it mean?
The child may not know that summer is near, but an older person who sees the leaves on the trees is going to say,
ah, I know that something that can't be seen yet is going to happen.
Summer is going to come.
Now you can't see it yet, but the older person knows that summer is near.
And then in verse 33, Jesus starts out by saying likewise.
So he's making a connection, isn't he?
Between verse 33 and verse 32.
He says likewise also you, when you see all these things, know that he is near at the doors.
Now what does Jesus mean by all these things?
Well the things he talked about earlier in the chapter.
Nation rising against nation, kingdom against kingdom, food shortages, earthquakes,
pestilences and so on. He says when you see all these things, I want you to draw a conclusion,
a conclusion about something spiritual.
Now when did all these things begin to appear in 1914?
Now in 1914, any young boy could see the various aspects of the sign,
wars, famines, earthquakes and so on, and conclude that they were bad.
But what did it all mean?
Only those with spiritual discernment would draw the conclusion, as Jesus said,
that he is near at the doors.
Now here's the point.
In 1914, who were the only ones who saw these various aspects of the sign
and drew the right conclusion that something invisible was occurring.
Only the anointed.
So this generation is made up of anointed ones who see the sign and have the spiritual discernment
to draw the proper conclusion about the sign.
Now one of those who saw the sign and understood what it meant was Brother Frederick Franz.
And Brother Franz was born in 1893 and he was baptized in November of 1913.
So as one of the lords anointed in 1914, he saw the sign and he was able to understand its meaning.
There were other anointed ones who also saw the sign and understood its meaning.
Joseph Rutherford, A. H. McMillan.
W. E. Van Ambre.
After 1914, others were anointed with Holy Spirit.
These include such well-known brothers as Nathan Nor, Lyman Swingle, Grant Souter, Milton Henshel, and George Ganges.
They were anointed contemporaries of some in the first group.
So really these brothers make up part of the second group of the generation.
That is significant and we'll come back to it in a moment.
Would you like an easy way to keep the generation straight?
An easy way is to consider the situation of Brother Fred W. Franz.
Now you'll see that he is F. W. F. on the chart.
Now as we said before, Brother Franz was born in 1893.
He was baptized in November of 1913.
So as one of the lords anointed in 1914, he saw the sign and he understood what the sign meant.
Now Brother Franz lived a long life.
He finished his earthly course at 99 years of age in 1992.
Now do you know of many who were of the anointed in 1914 and who outlived Brother Franz?
There may have been some, but not many.
Now just for the sake of argument, suppose that we assume that Brother Franz was the last of that first group of anointed ones.
That is the group of anointed ones who were anointed in 1914, who saw the sign and then continued serving faithfully.
Now we're not saying Brother Franz was, we just don't know.
But for the sake of argument, let's suppose.
In order to be part of this generation, someone would have had to have been anointed before 1992,
because he would have to have been a contemporary of some of the first group.
Now again, we're not saying that Brother Franz was the last of this group,
but we're just using this for the sake of argument as a point of reference.
Anyone anointed after 1992 would be of the anointed, but he would not be part of this generation.
And Jesus said, this generation will not pass away until all these things happen.
Are you beginning to see how this all connects with the urgency of our times?
Someone might say, we know that some of the anointed will be on the earth when the great tribulation breaks out,
but who's to say that Jehovah won't be anointing more people years from now?
And then they'll be reading about us in some updated version of the Proclamers book.
Well, the answer is simple.
Anyone anointed years from now would not have been a contemporary of those of the first group of anointed ones,
because they have passed off the scene.
And Jesus said, this generation will not pass away until all these things happen.
They would not have been part of the generation.
Now those of the second group of anointed ones are getting older.
This is especially clear when you consider who make up the second group.
We saw some pictures of those who made up the second group, but in addition,
there are Carl Klein, John Barr, Albert Schroeder.
All of the current members of the governing body are also part of this generation,
and some of us are showing our age.
So, brothers, we are indeed living deep in the time of the end.
Now is no time for any of us to get weary.
So, let's all heed Jesus' counsel.
The counsel found at Matthew 24-42.
Keep on the watch, therefore, because you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
Now we're in for a real treat.
Brother Sri Lanka is going to introduce a report about some who are keeping on the watch
as they preach to people in remote areas.
Bob, why don't you tell us about it?
Thank you.
In our ministry, we try to find people no matter what obstacles lie ahead.
Unlike Nicaragua, a group of missionaries, pioneers, and publishers travel by boat
to teach Bible truth to families living on hundreds of tiny islands near the city of Granada.
Lake Nicaragua is the largest freshwater lake in all of Central America.
Here you will see stunning natural beauty and a fisherman or two,
but perhaps most important of all are those who are fishing for men.
Reaching on a boat all day sounds very romantic,
but it actually involves many, many challenges.
The person has to have a blob experience and knowledge to deal to know where all the rocks under the water
and be able to drive safely.
We don't have to learn just one route.
We have to learn every route to reach everyone in these 365 islands.
I remember that one time they came that we was really blowing hard
and the driver ran into a big rock.
Then one of the young women aboard fell into the water.
A lot of the challenges have to deal with the cost because a cost you're in the boat.
We had to be very well organized to find out our date.
Sometimes you will go a whole morning and maybe only talk to two people.
But sometimes when they would come to study with us,
well, we didn't want to.
And we would tell them that we weren't going to study.
The brothers and sisters still found the encouragement to endure and many blessings as well.
One thing that helps us to keep our zeal, even though it's not always easy,
is thinking about how much people need to learn about your home
and learn about this kingdom and what's going to happen in the future.
And a very special scripture for me is Acts 1-8,
which says that the Jews will be preached to the most distant part of you.
Some older ones have helped us recognize how important modesty is to recognize your limitations
and to work within those boundaries,
and that way you can actually last longer in preaching in a territory
that's a bit more difficult to actually get to everything.
My husband and I have benefited from being here together
because we've learned to work as a team.
It feels good to know that we spent our years
where we were able to use our energy
and all of our efforts to really be useful.
Something that I have learned in this assignment is that
it's very important not to give up.
It taught me the need to be very adaptable, very patient, tolerant,
not only with the other brothers, but also with myself.
It really touched our hearts to see the enormous effort they made
just to visit us at our homes.
We told them, yes, we are going to study with you
because you show a lot of love in coming all the way here to our homes.
We were living the best of lives,
so knowing Jehovah has helped us to be more united as a family,
especially for my mom and my brothers.
Thanks to Jehovah into the island preaching work,
my sons are baptized, and my husband is an unbaptized publisher.
I learned the truth when some brothers came down here to the islands
and began to preach to us.
Jehovah is real to them now,
and I often think of this picture in Haggai 207
that says that these are the desirable things
of the nations, the questions, and they are very precious to us.
People would talk about the witnessing in the islands
because it was a very touristy area,
so we would have boats going by full of tourists,
and part of the tour was,
that's Jehovah's Witnesses preaching in their boat.
That's the little floating thing you call where they need.
So Jehovah's name has really been made known in the islands,
and people now know who we are.
Jehovah has certainly blessed the effort of those brothers and sisters.
In seven years of preaching, over 100 studies were started.
27 have become publishers, and 10 were baptized.
Some preaching territory like that in Nicaragua is difficult to reach.
Another type of challenge is when a small language group
is spread across vast distances.
Over 1 million men and nights, who speak low German,
live in communities around the world,
and countries like Russia, Paraguay, and Canada.
We are going to meet Wilhelm Canalsen,
who grew up in a men and a night community in Jehovah, Mexico,
and find out what moved him to learn Bible truth.
I was born 1993 into a men and a night family.
And from childhood on, I learned that God created us to suffer,
to work the fields, and to try to be worthy to go to heaven.
But from infancy, I decided to do what God wanted for me.
I wanted him to be pleased with me.
That was the desire of my heart.
Years back, I started to get the feeling that the memorized prayers
I would recite from my German prayer book just weren't enough.
They were not the prayers that I felt in my heart.
Didn't even understand them.
I wanted to tell God how I really felt, and that's what I did.
All of a sudden, I couldn't resist praying in my own language.
I told God everything.
I opened my heart to Him.
One thing I asked for was that He might help my family
so that we could do the right thing and be safe.
When I finished, I felt much calmer.
And from then on, I always prayed that way.
Later, my mother bought a Bible in our language,
and that just happened to be when Jehovah's Witnesses started to visit us.
Jehovah heard my prayer.
They came on a regular basis, and it was so remarkable.
We were amazed how they answered all of our questions
in our own language and with our own Bible.
It impressed me very much.
Then, when I was a teenager, I finished school.
Soon afterwards, I started working at the job
that was three and a half hours away from home.
At the same time, I started to go out like the other young people.
Looking for a girlfriend and drinking.
But later, my conscience tormented me.
My family was taking the Bible study very seriously, but I didn't.
But suddenly, things changed.
In January 2010, our family attended a district convention,
and that was very special for me.
It was so different from what I was used to.
The brothers came and welcomed me and treated me so kindly.
It was just amazing.
I could hardly believe it.
And the music they had, that was what touched my heart.
I liked it so much.
That was something I never forgot in all my life.
In July 2010, I started to regularly attend the meetings as well.
Then, brother asked me if I would like to study the Bible with him.
Using the book, what does the Bible really teach?
I then realized I had to do more if I wanted to please God.
It would have been good to attend every meeting,
but since I worked far away, I could not.
I could only attend the meetings on Sundays.
So, I decided to ask my boss if he could give me a different job,
but that didn't work.
It didn't want to make the change.
I wanted it for a little while.
I thought I would try asking again.
This time, I asked him if I could attend the meeting in a congregation
that was near my work.
But he didn't want to let me do that either.
And there was something else.
He wanted to give me a large bonus if I would work for him until the end of the year.
But I thought to myself, if I go on working,
what will this show regarding my decision making?
If Jehovah's Day comes, what do I show as more important for me?
Jehovah or my work?
And so the decision was made.
After I resigned my work, I brought all my things home
and I felt free, relieved, ready to serve Jehovah.
One week after I quit my job, I was approved to preach with the congregation.
And what a great pleasure it was for me,
a performance later, I could dedicate myself to Jehovah and get baptized.
That made me so happy.
Soon afterwards, I was able to serve as a regular pioneer
and even be appointed as a ministerial servant.
But Jehovah's blessing didn't stop there.
The privilege I now have, working as a translator on the low German translation team.
It's the best work I can imagine.
It helps more people to come to know Jehovah in their own language.
Not in a language they can hardly understand,
so that they too can learn the truth about Jehovah God.
I look forward to surviving into the new world, together with my family,
to work the land and contribute to making the earth a paradise.
Did you notice what touched Wilhelm's heart?
It was praying to God in the language of his heart
and being able to read the Bible in his native low German.
That's why we do everything we can to show people in their own language
what the Bible really teaches.
But something else caught Wilhelm's attention at the convention he attended with his family.
It was our theocratic music.
We've been blessed in recent years with new songs and inspiring recordings
that let us sing to Jehovah.
And if you play an instrument, but think playing theocratic music will be too difficult,
you can download sheet music with simplified chords from the JW.org website.
To give you some encouragement, we found brothers and sisters playing our beautiful songs
in their local styles, with instruments common in their area of the world.
You don't have to be an expert musician with a simple instrument you can praise Jehovah.
I play theocratic music when I'm alone at home,
also when I'm with my family and sometimes during our family worship.
We also sing theocratic songs when gathering with brothers and sisters.
We play theocratic music in our local style.
I can never stop to think Jehovah for this opportunity.
I feel privileged that I can play theocratic music,
to bring praise and honor to Jehovah.
It generates within me a special feeling when playing the Kingdom song using this instrument.
It really makes me happy.
It is something we can do as a family too.
Using instruments, we are able to use instruments that God gave us,
which is our voices to praise Him.
The emotions really play a huge role in singing,
being able to sing with emotion brings the meaning of the song.
Music is a gift from Jehovah.
Jehovah really appreciates anything that comes out of the heart
and this is an instrument that is very close to my heart.
Every where the brothers and sisters are playing the music,
it makes my heart very calm.
So when I play at home, I feel like I also have a share in it.
Playing Kingdom songs gives me a feeling that I have achieved the purpose of learning music.
I don't get this piece in joy, then I play any other song.
What a beautiful glimpse of what we can do to praise Jehovah with song.
Of all the instruments we saw, the one highlighted in South Africa,
is one that most of us already own, the human voice, a gift from Jehovah.
Why not include singing or playing Christian songs at your next family worship?
As you may have noted, this month marks the 12th edition of J.W. Broadcasting,
our first complete year.
And while J.W. Broadcasting is designed to benefit you dear brothers and sisters,
did you know that from 1924 to 1957, the organization used radio broadcasts
to benefit a different audience?
These two featured Bible teachings and theocratic music.
But WBBR radio and stations like it was a way for the small number of Kingdom Proclamers
to reach millions in populated areas with the good news.
In an archived interview, Brother Robert Hatsfeld explains his privilege
to have been part of that historic method of preaching.
I was born in 1903 in Pittsburgh and Allegheny.
And in a very, very interesting lifetime I've had down through these years.
A group that I was in in the neighborhood, two of us decided where we're going to go to see
us radio operators on ships.
In order to get the license, we had to be able to send and receive telegraph messages.
And so the two of us came to New York and we went to the RCA school to learn telegraph.
When I was going to school and living in Manhattan, I was going to the meetings
was only one meeting at that time for all the brothers throughout the home metropolitan
area, inside and outside the city, in a rented hall in the Masonic temple that's still down
here in Lafayette Avenue.
It was a New York Church of International Bible students.
And when I told the brothers that I was figuring on going to see as a telegraph operator,
they said, well, why go to see? We have a radio station.
So then a little later I came over to Bethel here to see what it was all about.
And the brother, one of the brothers for its secretaries, Brother Haslet, came out and interviewed me.
And I was told that I should finish the course, get my license and then come over.
So that's how I got the Bethel.
I got my license in December, came to Bethel and got involved in any kind of electrical
work, anything at all, and operating the radio transmitter.
Brother Rutherford had broadcast in Philadelphia from the Opera House about 1921.
And he and the other elders decided that this was Jehovah's Provision Radio,
was Jehovah's Provision to get this truth spread out.
There was no way for a couple hundred witnesses to witness to the millions and millions of people
in the metropolitan area, yet alone the world.
So they decided that since you couldn't go out and buy a radio station, we'll build one.
And they got together and they bought a wilderness out Staten Island that needed to be cleaned
out, all the brush cleaned out, land leveled off, and we're going to build a radio station.
So they built a big house, really big house, that can prove to be very useful down through the years.
So they built another smaller building alongside of the house.
I had the radio transmitter in the one end of it, and the studio in the same building.
In the spring of 1924, the first program was put on.
The programs were made up by using all the things that the society published were used in some kind of a program.
We had all kinds of programs. We had to put on some music, and we had real good music.
We had a seven piece orchestra with play on every day program.
And then we had the augmented orchestra of brothers coming out from Bethel and playing over the weekend.
We had bought a used transmitter, 500 watts, to get started.
And that was enough of power with that single wire antenna that in the early days,
that was heard all over a very, very large area because there wasn't many stations,
and there wasn't much electrical interference.
But then this first transmitter was replaced in 1927 by a brand new western electric transmitter of a thousand watts.
That made a considerable increase in our territory that we were covering.
With very little interference, when people would sit down with their phones and try to receive distant programs and pay attention,
when they heard something good that they were interested in, they really paid attention,
because there wasn't a whole lot of other things to distract them and take them away from it.
That was an evening's entertainment to sit down and listen to the radio.
The commercial programs, of course, were, some of them were interesting,
but the Bible message appealed to a lot of people in those days.
This message was a life-giving message that we had.
It was a matter of life and death, really.
And we know that without your whole self, nothing would have happened.
So it worked out very well right from the beginning, that we were broadcasting the message of the kingdom over the radio.
Brother Hatsfeld served at Bethel for almost 75 years before finishing his earthly course in 2001 at the age of 98.
He and others seen on that video, like Brother Rutherford, were part of the generation of anointed ones in Matthew 24,
that Brother Splein so clearly helped us identify.
They were excellent examples in their zeal and urgency to preach in these last days.
Brother Hatsfeld also spent his earthly life in Jehovah's service as a single person,
being single allowed him to serve without distraction,
but for many in that situation, the loneliness of being without a mate can be difficult.
Give your attention to how this sister overcame those feelings.
She was able to change her viewpoint about being single in the Christian congregation.
Life is kind of lonely right now. All of my friends got married and seemed so happy.
What if I never find someone? Tano invited me for a gathering. That's nice.
Actually, I don't feel comfortable at gatherings. All those people. Maybe another time.
I just love my job. Mark has given me lots of attention lately. He really appreciates me.
And actually, he's kind of cute, but he's not a brother.
I really want to be obedient to Jehovah, but it's hard.
Marry only in the Lord. That sounds nice. I just don't know any brother I really connect with.
Taylor met her husband on the internet. They seem to be very happy.
So what's the harm in finding a brother that way? Would it really be bad to have a quick look at one of those JW dating sites?
It's Julia. How thoughtful of her to invite me for family worship.
Should I join them? Oh well, why not? Julia used to be in the same position as I'm in. She understands me.
I love the story of Jeff this daughter. Because her father made a promise to Jehovah,
she served at Jehovah's Tabernacle for the rest of her life. She was single too.
And sad for a little while. But she learned to be content and found joy in her service to Jehovah.
Every year, her friends visited her and were a real encouragement. And so am I.
That family study really had an impact on me. If Jeff this daughter could do that, so can I.
Jehovah promises that. Jehovah will not hold back anything good from those walking in integrity.
I cannot believe it even crossed my mind to date a non-witness or even look at those JW dating sites and put my integrity at stake.
Imagine what I could have gotten myself into. I'm so happy Julia invited me.
Jehovah will definitely be there for me to turn my singleness into a success.
It's been a while now since I've started pioneering. That decision strengthened my relationship with Jehovah.
I feel much closer to the congregation. I finally understand what Jesus meant at Matthew 19, verse 12.
He said, let the one who can make room for it, make room for it.
My singleness indeed allows me to serve Jehovah without distraction. I just love my life.
Invitation to the school for Kingdom Evangelises. Yes, Jehovah really did not hold back anything good from me.
Like our dear sister, if you struggle with being single.
Focusing your efforts in the ministry and drawing close to the congregation can be a great comfort.
And if your circumstances allow, prayerfully consider one of the many ways a single person has available to expand his or her ministry.
Well, next meet a brother who after learning the truth saw that he had the makings of a full ministry right within his home territory.
Bill Richards is from the Talawa tribe that lives in the northwestern area of the United States.
He and others from his tribe knew there was a creator, but did not yet know him personally.
I was born in the government hospital on the Hooper Reservation.
And in her own member of the Talawa tribe.
For many years, I served as tribal chairman, which some people know as chief or headman, as did my father and grandfather.
The word Talawa means people to the north, or ancestral territories, straddles, the northern California and southern Oregon mollors.
On my early years, I considered it a good, fun place to grow up in.
During the summer, we have a fish run down here that's very important to us.
It's what we call a spelt run. We have the yuck and the deer.
We had a good life here. We lived off the land.
We had salmon in the rivers. We had the berries, the acorns.
Everything we needed was provided for us here by our creator.
I went to school and spent forever, and right out of high school, I joined the military service.
In the military, it was eye-opening for me when I was transferred to the East Coast.
Their prejudice was right out in the open.
And that was really very surprising to me that it could be that strong of prejudice.
About that time I met Viola, my wife. We've been married.
This September will be 55 years.
Well, I started studying after Viola had been studying for a number of weeks.
We started a weekly Bible study, and I was engaging that for quite some time.
And then one of the sisters seeing my husband that he was here, and she started talking to him.
Pretty soon, we started talking again, and then it got to the table, and we started a study.
And he wasn't through that.
You know, the more I studied, the more knowledge the energy it got.
And studying the Bible early on, it was too bad.
It went to community. But when we started on a regular basis,
then it interfered with me and some of the meetings here.
The local meetings came on a certain night and we usually have some of them who had the Bible study.
One of the things that they really had a hard time adjusting to was death.
Because it showed honor to the person that was their last statement in life.
And that was the Havoc funeral.
We could not always attend, but we showed in other ways that we did care.
And we would go to the fellowship gathering after the funeral to show our support.
Holidays were an extremely difficult challenge because it was a family gathering time.
It was hard to make those adjustments and explain to our family.
We progressed from there to our baptism, and she said, I am ready to get baptized.
So I said, well, I am ready to. So we got baptized together.
I was baptized at 71 years of age.
Sometimes I would go to the convention and I would look around and see how many Native Americans I could pinpoint.
You know, it wasn't very many.
I have been told by the day that I am not seeing too many Native Americans.
You know, I am looking.
And he said, well, you'd better get busy and start teaching stuff.
And he's right.
This day, you know, if I can reach a Native American, then that's what I want to do or anybody else.
Many people in our Native identity today carries an equal feather.
And it's just a symbol of being protected, but they didn't know his name.
They called him Creator.
And now I share with some of the ones and their response if they listen.
And I said, I know his name.
And I told him it was Jehovah.
I have a special feeling for the honk with community cemetery down here,
because I'm looking at the names and all that.
I realized that my mother and father are both buried there.
The biggest hope now, and they even came.
They expanded well to me and that.
You're going to see them again.
That's the being hope.
Another blessing is our children.
They have been attending the memorial.
And then other special talks.
You know, we have them join us.
And that definitely is a blessing.
I have received many blessings.
I have a better relationship with my wife.
I even take my shoes off when they come into the house.
I have many meaningful relationships within the congregation.
And I get to teach other native to serve Jehovah.
Bible truth appeals to people from all backgrounds.
In Brother Richard's case, he left his post as chief and tribal chairman
when he dedicated himself to God.
Our program is highlighting examples of those past and present,
and Jehovah has moved them to preach with zeal,
knowing we are close to the end.
While all of us take part in the commission to make disciples,
there are also many unique assignments that support our primary work in the field.
Such was the case for those who worked at Kingdom Farm in South Lansing, New York.
See how their story emphasizes the need for endurance and love for people
no matter what type of assignment we have.
The year was 1935.
Humankind was on the path to a second and more devastating World War.
But Jehovah's Witnesses were busy sharing the Bible's message of hope.
In 15 years, the witnesses had grown from less than 6,000 to almost 60,000 worldwide.
Their preaching work was aided by a growing World Headquarters family in Brooklyn, New York.
The workers in Brooklyn needed a source of food,
so a 600 acre farm near Ithaca, New York was purchased and named Kingdom Farm.
Those at Kingdom Farm showed the same faith and dedication as Jehovah's Witnesses everywhere.
David Abuel arrived at the property on January 1, 1935.
The barn was burned out, only a few horses had survived.
And that spring, the land flooded.
Undeterred, David and those that joined him rebuilt the barn.
They replanted the crops and began constructing other needed buildings.
John Booth, who later served on Jehovah's Witnesses governing body, arrived in 1941.
After more than 13 years of full-time preaching, it was difficult to settle down to farming.
Settling down meant farming by day, and study by night at Cornell University's library.
I applied myself to the study of animal and plant nutrition.
In time, we produced most of the food used by the growing Bethel family in Brooklyn.
Kingdom Farm was finally productive, but there were other challenges to face.
Christian neutrality brought increased mob actions against Jehovah's Witnesses.
On June 14, 1940, Flag Day, a group of men approached Kingdom Farm.
David Abuel recalls.
We were put lies by an old fella who had passed by on his way to buy his whiskey,
to a plan by the town's people to burn down all our buildings and wreck our machinery.
John Bogard remembers what happened next.
About six o'clock in the evening, the gangs started together, one car after another,
until there were 30 or 40 carloads.
But the presence of the police kept him on the highway.
The Witnesses were determined to stay on the property and wait it out.
Late in the night, a frustrated mob finally disbanded.
After that night, the Witnesses continued to reach out to their neighbors through their ministry and caring spirit.
By the 1970s, others, like Harlan Shock, were still making the effort.
I learned that a man that was involved in a mob action in 1940 later became a witness.
That inspired me to get to know the neighbors better and to offer other farmers help whenever there was a need.
Of course, they offered the same kindness as later on.
That made me feel good.
By 1974, primary farm operations had moved to Walkill, New York,
as did many of Kingdom Farm's long-time workers.
They took their cherished memories with them.
They left behind a history of faith and dedication.
Kingdom Farm was used to advance Kingdom interest for 80 years until its recent sale
in March of 2015.
Many who served there like Brother John Booth were also part of the anointed generation of Matthew 24.
Although it was primarily a farming assignment,
did you notice the attention our brothers paid to giving a thorough witness despite opposition?
Kingdom Farm was also the original home of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead,
training the first class of missionaries there in 1943.
While a missionary assignment often includes learning a foreign language,
some of us can learn a language that would help reach people with the truth right in our own circuit.
Let's meet fellow believer and Helica Pintado,
who overcame something that held her back from joining a language group in her area.
My name is Angelica Pintado.
I was born in Ecuador and I moved to New York in the year 2001.
I have been a regular pioneer for a few years now and it has always been my desire to do more for Jehovah.
Something that helped me was a conversation I had with a circuit overseer,
where he encouraged me to learn a new language so that I could help others learn about Jehovah in their mother tongue.
Now that I have decided to join the Guarani group,
I have seen clearly how Jehovah has molded me as the great potter.
One of the challenges I had in the beginning was fear,
but I continue to trust in Jehovah.
And by sharing the message with other people, seeing their reaction to the good news,
this has helped me to continue.
I have seen how Jehovah has used me as an instrument to share the message with other people.
Additionally, my first Bible study is now my best friend,
and seeing others whom she has helped to come to know Jehovah is truly a great privilege.
I have no words to explain my gratitude to Jehovah for having used me,
and truly it's something that we can only experience if we give our best to Jehovah.
Like Sister Pintado, each of us wants to give our best to Jehovah.
Living close to the end means we are preaching in very exciting times,
but at 2 Timothy 3-1, the Bible calls these critical times hard to deal with.
That's true, not just for us as Jehovah's Witnesses,
but also for everyone we meet in our ministry and daily life.
Often something simple, like a smile, can help melt the stress and anxiety
that the person is feeling and open their heart to the witness we give.
That's the theme of our new music video for this month's program, Just A Smile.
We can speak on that, we can pay into thousand pictures
with a kind eyes just a smile,
is all just a smile, just a smile.
That song.
Bob, I think it's going to inspire me to smile more when I preach,
and maybe at other times as well.
Bob, I want to thank you so much for sharing those motivating experiences
of the brothers and sisters who have kept the faith in the past
and who are keeping on the watch today.
It was truly inspiring.
It has been a pleasure, David.
We leave you this month with greetings from the region of Ma and Denon
in the west of Cte de Voir.
15 groups and congregations preach in a rugged mountain area,
where most people speak the Yacuba language.
Two teams work full-time in the remote translation office in the city of Ma,
translating literature and videos into Yacuba.
Publications are very well received in the territory,
especially our Caleb and Sophia videos for young ones.
Our brothers and sisters there are preaching zealously out of love for their neighbors.
The 35 publishers of the Denon Yacuba congregation organized their memorial
in seven different locations so that a total of 3,117 could attend.
And in a small village near Ma,
two pioneer sisters conduct close to 20 Bible studies
and hold regular meetings with periodic visits from brothers
to give public talks and encouragement.
Well, our Christian love and greeting is going back to them.
And as for you, we've said it before,
but we're going to say it again.
We love you all very, very much.
Thank you for joining us.
This is J.W. Broadcasting in Brooklyn, New York.